now if you need to sleep at least eight
hours
just to be able to do something during
the day hey i'm with you on that one bud
but if you can sleep for less than six
hours and still function without any
trouble
chances are you're lucky to have short
sleeper syndrome
it's a genetic condition that allows you
to sleep much less than other people
and not regret it at all better yet
there are no known side effects to it
so it's an all-around win
on a similar note you ever wake up and
look at your tousled hair with
frustration
and now imagine having this disheveled
look forever and not being able to do
anything about it it's called the
uncomable hair syndrome
your hair is always sticking out every
which way and no amount of water or hair
gel can tame it
luckily it usually happens in kids and
passes
all by itself as they reach teenage
years still
what an excuse to never waste time
combing your hair in the morning
a second pair of arms would come in
handy in a lot of situations
but an extra pair of fingers might be
helpful too
about one in every 500 people is born
with six
digits on either hand hey give me a high
six
in most cases the extra fingers are
considered useless
and removed but research has shown that
those who left them
could do lots of everyday things with
just one hand like tying their shoelaces
or playing video games with game pads
hey
i wonder if this is the next stage of
human evolution after all
i guess buying gloves could also be
challenging
if something doesn't seem right to you
in this hand it's because it has a
triphalangeal thumb
about 1 in 25 000 people are born with
the thumbs on their hands
having three phalanges or bones instead
of the usual two
giving their hands a very extraordinary
look and when it happens in combination
with six
fingers which isn't too rare by the way
the picture is even more cryptic
such a condition doesn't bring much
discomfort in fact
some actions are even easier done with a
thumb that has an extra phalange
imagine falling from the roof of a
10-story building
and getting away with a few bruises and
scratches but no
broken bones whatsoever such a genetic
anomaly was discovered back in 1994
it makes a person's bones about eight
times denser than normal
which basically makes them
indestructible there was a case where a
man had gotten in a serious car crash
and not only survived but had not a
single fracture
what's even better for him at least is
that the feature seems to be hereditary
it means he could pass it down to his
kids and they'll become
unbreakable too the next condition
wouldn't give you any unusual abilities
but
it looks beautiful heterochromia makes
your eyes
two different colors say one hazel and
the other blue
it has to do with the levels of melanin
in your body
a pigment that affects the color of your
skin hair
and yes your eyes there's also partial
heterochromia
when only a part of one of your eyes is
differently colored
it's not too common in humans but i bet
you've seen it in dogs
huskies in particular this breed is
naturally predisposed to this condition
and i think it looks super cool
you've probably heard that cholesterol
doesn't do much good for your body
and it's usually hard to get rid of it
well there are people who have a natural
immunity against it a specific gene in
their bodies doesn't allow cholesterol
to pile up in their blood
and so they can easily avoid most
troubles it may otherwise cause
too low levels of it might be an issue
as well but in most cases
it's not inhibited just kept at bay
our eyes allow us to see millions of
colors and shades
thanks to three types of cones inside of
them each type is responsible for seeing
a range of shades
between the three primary colors red
green and blue
but there are people who have an extra
cone type
they're called tector chromats and we
can't even start to imagine what the
world looks like to them
they see millions more shades than
others do
and can show you the difference between
two virtually similar colors
interestingly most mammals used to have
four types of cones in their eyes in the
distant past
but lost one in the process of evolution
a less impressive but not less rare
condition
is the so-called double crown now a
crown is that patch of hair on top of
your head
that goes in a spiral it's pretty hard
to miss if you have short hair
especially because it's the hardest part
to smooth down
yeah people normally have one but there
are unlucky individuals to have two and
double the smoothing trouble
still some believe having a double crown
is on the contrary
a sign of good luck or even high
intelligence
if you ever wanted to meet a real life
superman or super girl
seek a person with inactive myostatin
protein
that's a real genetic anomaly that makes
a person super strong
their muscles grow without inhibition
from early age
kids with inactivated myostatin develop
physically much faster than their peers
and when grown up they can achieve
superior athletic success
this condition was first observed in
cows some bovines grew to be
exceptionally muscular with little signs
of body fat
turns out humans can be just like that
as well
climbing mountains is not only
physically difficult but
also tough on the lungs breathing
becomes harder the closer you get to the
sky
because the air is thinner up there well
not so much for the tibetans though
research has shown that mountain
dwellers have an exclusive genetic
mutation
they can easily breathe the thin
mountain air as if they were in a valley
this also makes them extremely hardy
being able to do much more hard work
than regular people
that's why the gene responsible for this
adaptation
is also called the super athlete gene
the rarest genetic condition there
probably is called the golden blood
can be a lifesaver for millions of
people there are just
40 known carriers of this blood type in
the world
they don't have any rh blood antigens
which means
anyone can accept their blood even those
with extremely rare blood types
and although their blood isn't golden in
color it's certainly worth more than
just gold
[Music]
now if you remember elizabeth taylor you
probably also recall how beautiful
and expressive her eyes were that was in
part thanks to a rare genetic disorder
double eyelashes a small number of
people around the world
have two rows of eyelashes instead of
one
making them look just gorgeous on the
downside the second row might get into
the eye
causing irritation so sometimes people
with this condition have to pluck the
excess eyelashes identical twins are
rare enough themselves
but there's a super rare occasion of
different twins
even when they're born from the same egg
sometimes kids don't even resemble each
other
in some cases even skin color can be
different
such kids are often born to mix race
couples one of the twins could inherit a
gene for white skin for example
and the other a gene for dark skin and
voila
[Music]
phytoligo is a condition that makes the
skin hair and nails
lose color in patches because of the
lack of melanin
about two percent of all people in the
world have this disorder
and surprisingly it's become something
of a fashion trend nowadays
there are several successful fashion
models who have vital ego
and you can argue that they look
magnificent
[Music]
cleft chin just like dimples on the
cheeks looks adorable
and it's also a genetic mutation it
appears when the bones or muscles in the
lower jaw
don't fuse completely during the baby's
development inside the womb
it's hereditary but if you have a cleft
chin it doesn't mean your kids will have
it too
there are environmental factors that can
prevent it from developing
if vital ego means you have a partial
lack of melanin
albinism is a condition where this
pigment is absent from your body
altogether
very few people have it and they look
completely out of this world
with their snow white skin hair
eyelashes and pale blue or gray eyes
animals can have it too there are
particularly marvelous cases of albino
peacocks
and even crocodiles that are completely
white
another type of albinism is called
ocular albinism
the difference is that it only affects
the eyes the pigment is lacking in the
irises
making the eyes look wonderfully alien
the downside is that the lack of melanin
makes the eyes
really sensitive to light so people with
this condition
have to take great care of their site